Intuition tells us that a wire without defects should have zero resistance. But in the real world all conductors, however perfect, have some resistance. A new study confirms that electrical contacts are the problem. It is the dream of physicists and electrical engineers alike to build electronic devices that can conduct electrical currents with the minimal amount of resistance. The miniaturization of electronics will soon lead to devices of the smallest possible physical dimensions, in which quantum effects become important. In this context, the ultimate conductor would be a very thin one-dimensional wire that has no defects to inhibit resistance-free currents. Electrons in such a wire are ballistic — that is, the wire is so clean that the distance travelled by the electrons between collisions is longer than the wire itself. On page 51 of this issue de Picciotto et al.1 describe electrical conduction in a nearly perfect, ballistic one-dimensional wire. This groundbreaking work helps to establish fundamental limits on the current-carrying capacity of ideal wires and their connections.Imagine a perfect, extremely thin, straight wire in which electrons are allowed to move only along the wire. A perfect wire has no defects, kinks or obstacles other than a connection at each end to allow current to pass through an external circuit, and perhaps two probes along the wire to measure the voltage (Fig. 1a). Will the motion of the electrons and hence conduction of electricity in this wire proceed without resistance? De Picciotto et al.1 have created this imaginary wire in the laboratory. They find that the resistance of a wire can be separated into two parts: an 'intrinsic resistance' due to the scattering of electrons by imperfections in the wire, and a 'contact resistance' associated with the connections to the external circuit. The intrinsic resistance is measured by the two voltage probes, which draw negligible current. The authors find that in their defect-free wire the intrinsic resistance does actually reach zero, although there is a finite contact resistance of around 13 k .The vanishing of the intrinsic resistance agrees with the simple notion that the current-carrying electrons should move freely if there are no obstacles. Our picture of electrical resistance as the result of momentum-changing deflections on charge-carriers dates back to the work of Drude around 1900. The most effective deflections are those that scatter charge-carriers in the opposite direction to that of their flow. In the late 1950s, Landauer2 became fascinated with the idea of electronic miniaturization and proposed a conceptual framework for understanding electrical conduction in one-dimensional wires. Landauer realized that the wire can be thought of as being connected to electrochemical potential reservoirs, in which many electrons of different energies are available for conduction (Fig. 1b). Once an electron enters the wire it cannot change energy, and only momentum changes can affect the electrical current. So where the wire is connected to the reservoirs there is a mismatch of energies and a contact resistance develops. Conversely, in a regular three-dimensional wire, the contact resistance is very small and so tends to go unnoticed. But in a one-dimensional conductor, with no impurities, the intrinsic resistance must vanish although the contract resistance is high.Until the 1980s most current measurements on mesoscopic devices (typically a micrometre or less in size) used a two-terminal geometry, in which voltage difference is measured solely between the current source and drain. But after Webb et al.3 developed the technology to place multiple terminals on small metallic wires and rings, it was discovered that the four-terminal — two voltage probes in addition to two current leads — resistance of a non-ballistic wire changes if the direction of an external magnetic field is reversed. This unexpected result was explained by Buttiker4, who generalized Landauer's ideas to devices with multiple terminals. He pointed out that, in the absence of magnetic impurities, a four-terminal resistance should be unchanged by swapping over the current and voltage probes and reversing the magnetic field.After considering the multiple-terminal case, Buttiker proposed that a two-terminal resistance must always contain a contact resistance, even if the wire is ballistic. This contact resistance can be measured directly between point contacts that are shorter than the mean free path of electrons in a non-ballistic conductor5, 6. Two-terminal measurements of ballistic wires also found their resistance to be quite large, around 13 k . Is this resistance just the sum of the contact resistances?De Picciotto et al.1 have built a multi-terminal one-dimensional conductor to address this issue. Classically a wire is considered to be one-dimensional if its width exactly accommodates the size of the charge carriers with no room for wiggling. Electrons are essentially point objects, so this is technically unfeasible. But this is where quantum mechanics comes to the rescue. If an electron is made to occupy the lowest quantum-mechanical energy state in the lateral directions, without access to higher excited states, it would be free to move only in one dimension. The key is to confine electrons so tightly that the energy levels of the excited states are too high for them to reach. One way of doing this is to cool the wire to sufficiently low temperatures — but not superconducting temperatures — so that the excited states are thermally inaccessible and conduction is strictly one dimensional.To create the perfect one-dimensional wire, de Picciotto et al. use a precise semiconductor growth technique called cleaved edge overgrowth7 to grow alternate crystalline layers of GaAs and AlGaAs in orthogonal directions, which form a neat edge. Even more remarkably they have succeeded in attaching non-invasive voltage probes to the minuscule wire. The GaAs/AlGaAs sheet forms a two-dimensional electron gas, and the authors place metallic electrodes on the surface to isolate the one-dimensional wire from the rest of the sheet (Fig. 1c). When negative voltages are applied to these electrodes they deplete the two-dimensional electron gas beneath them but preserve the one-dimensional wire along the edge. The width of the metallic electrodes defines the length of the isolated wire. The separation between the electrodes also creates two narrow strips in the two-dimensional electron gas that act as voltage probes.This set-up allows both four-terminal and two-terminal measurements to be made on the same wire. In order to measure the intrinsic resistance, it is essential that the voltage probes do not disturb the current flow. With a one-dimensional wire this is usually impossible, but in their system de Picciotto et al. can tune the effect of the voltage probe until it is almost non-existent. They show that whereas the intrinsic resistance measured between the non-invasive voltage probes vanishes, the two-terminal resistance of about 13 k  can be directly attributed to the current contacts. This non-zero contact resistance indicates that there is a minimum resistance for the passage of electricity regardless of how perfect a wire may be.It would be interesting to explore the possibility of circumventing the limitations imposed by the presence of contact resistances. One can imagine measuring the electrical properties of one-dimensional conductors using a contact-free method, such as capacitance coupling, to induce charge motion. The results of studies like that of de Picciotto and colleagues will apply equally to carbon nanotubes and other one-dimensional systems, and will become increasingly important as electronics gets ever smaller.